NMS-14348: Add terms to glossary.adoc & update formatting (#4861)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/reference/pages/glossary.adoc

ActiveMQ:: Java-based open-source message broker supported by the Apache community.
(See xref:deployment:core/setup-message-broker.adoc#setup-message-broker[Set Up Message Broker].)

> Alarms:: Indicators for problems occurring in networks {page-component-title} monitors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alarms:: Indicators for problems occurring on entities that {page-component-title} monitors.
```

(See xref:operation:alarms/introduction.adoc[Alarms].)

ALEC:: The Architecture for Learning Enabled Correlation (ALEC) is an OpenNMS framework that uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to provide alarm triage.
ALEC groups related alarms so you can better manage the more complex situations they might represent.
(See https://docs.opennms.com/alec/latest/[ALEC documentation].)

Application Perspective Monitoring (APM):: A method that uses the Minion infrastructure to monitor a service’s availability from different perspectives to help identify if nodes are down for everyone or if an outage affects only certain sites.
When a service is not responsive an outage will be generated with the corresponding perspective that sees the outage.
(See xref:operation:application-perspective-monitoring/introduction.adoc[Application Perspective Monitoring].)

Azure:: Microsoft Azure is a cloud hosting platform from Microsoft that allows users to host a variety of different services.

> Azure Kubernetes Service:: The Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) uses Microsoft Azure to offload overhead and simplify the process of deploying a managed Kubernetes cluster.
> Azure handles critical tasks such as health monitoring and maintenance.
> Users manage and maintain agent nodes.
> (See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes[Introduction to AKS].)
> 

Author: We can remove it for now, then. If we need it in the future, we always have logs of it here. :) 

```suggestion

```

(See https://grafana.com/[Grafana].)
OpenNMS HELM is a Grafana plugin that allows users to create customized dashboards with data from {page-component-title}.
(See https://docs.opennms.com/helm/latest[HELM Documentation].)

Helm:: Helm is an OpenNMS application for creating flexible dashboards to display and customize fault, flow, and performance data from {page-component-title}.
Helm works with the Grafana analytics program to customize the data you can view.
Not to be confused with the https://helm.sh/[Kubernetes Helm] package manager.
(See https://docs.opennms.com/helm/latest[HELM Documentation].)

Horizon:: Open-source solution from OpenNMS that helps users visualize and monitor everything on their local and remote networks.
Free, community-driven project includes the latest technology and features delivered through a rapid release cycle.

IFTTT:: If This Then That (https://ifttt.com/[IFTTT]) is an automation and workflow service that integrates apps, devices, and services.
{page-component-title} can integrate with IFTTT to trigger actions on other services based on customized alarms.
(See xref:operation:alarms/ifttt-integration.adoc[IFTTT Integration].)

> Instance:: (1) A single, unique occurrence of an element, document, or running program.
> (2) Used in data collection for storing tabular data as separate data points.

Author: Bonnie's last comment on the previous thread was hidden, since it was marked Resolved when I committed the change, but does this work to accommodate it?

```suggestion
Instance:: (1) A single, unique occurrence of an element, document, or running program.
(2) Used in data collection for storing tabular data as separate data points.
(3) Used to refer to the OpenNMS Core in the OpenNMS Appliance Service UI.
```

Reviewer: Should it be `OpenNMS Core` or `{page-component-title} Core`?

Reviewer 2: Good catch. {page-component-title} core

Author: Got it! If we're all good with this version, I'll commit it. :) 

```suggestion
Instance:: (1) A single, unique occurrence of an element, document, or running program.
(2) Used in data collection for storing tabular data as separate data points.
(3) Used to refer to the {page-component-title} Core in the OpenNMS Appliance Service UI.
```

Discovery:: A process that uses ICMP to find network devices and services in your network and then automatically adds them to monitoring.
(See xref:operation:provisioning/introduction.adoc#discovery-auto[Provisioning].)

Docker:: Docker is an open-source virtualization service consisting of three components: Docker Compose (a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications), Docker Swarm (a tool providing native clustering functionality for Docker containers), and Docker Volume (a tool that allows for the independent persistence of data).
(See https://docs.docker.com/[Docker].)

Dominion:: The service on an OpenNMS core that controls the operation of Minions.
(See xref:reference:configuration/minion-confd/minion-confd.adoc#dominion[Configuring Minion via Confd].)

> Elasticsearch:: Elasticsearch is a search engine based on the Lucene library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch:: Elasticsearch is a No-SQL database with an integrated search engine based on the Lucene library.
```

> Elasticsearch:: Elasticsearch is a No-SQL database with an integrated search engine based on the Lucene library.

Reviewer 2: @mmahacek should we include a link to NoSQL or is this something database people just know?

OpenNMS persists/forwards certain data to Elasticsearch to store flow records and warehouse events and alarm history for long-term storage of this data.
(See xref:operation:elasticsearch/introduction.adoc#elasticsearch[Elasticsearch Integration].)

Events:: Structured historical records of occurrences in {page-component-title} and the nodes, interfaces, and services it manages.
(See xref:operation:events/anatomy-events.adoc[Anatomy of an Event].)

Flows:: Summaries of network traffic sent by network devices.
(See xref:operation:flows/introduction.adoc[Flows].)

Foreign Source:: A data source hosted outside of your local network.
To customize monitoring of nodes in a foreign source, you can set a foreign source definition with your desired detectors and policies.
(See xref:operation:provisioning/getting-started.adoc#foreign-source-definition[Foreign Source Definition].)

Grafana:: Grafana is an open-source analysis and visualization web application.

> It monitors data sources and generates charts, graphs, and alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It connects to data sources and generates dashboards with charts, graphs, and alerts.
```

Helm works with the Grafana analytics program to customize the data you can view.
Not to be confused with the https://helm.sh/[Kubernetes Helm] package manager.
(See https://docs.opennms.com/helm/latest[HELM Documentation].)

Horizon:: Open-source solution from OpenNMS that helps users visualize and monitor everything on their local and remote networks.
Free, community-driven project includes the latest technology and features delivered through a rapid release cycle.

IFTTT:: If This Then That (https://ifttt.com/[IFTTT]) is an automation and workflow service that integrates apps, devices, and services.
{page-component-title} can integrate with IFTTT to trigger actions on other services based on customized alarms.
(See xref:operation:alarms/ifttt-integration.adoc[IFTTT Integration].)

Instance:: A single, unique copy of a running program.
If a program has multiple instances, that indicates that the program has been loaded into memory more than once.

Jira:: Jira is a project management platform used by OpenNMS to track software issues, feature requests, and IT requests.

> (See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jira_(software)[Jira].)

Reviewer: What about linking this to issues.opennms.com instead of wikipedia?

Author: Good idea, I can do that!

Discovery:: A process that uses ICMP to find network devices and services in your network and then automatically adds them to monitoring.
(See xref:operation:provisioning/introduction.adoc#discovery-auto[Provisioning].)

Docker:: Docker is an open-source virtualization service consisting of three components: Docker Compose (a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications), Docker Swarm (a tool providing native clustering functionality for Docker containers), and Docker Volume (a tool that allows for the independent persistence of data).
(See https://docs.docker.com/[Docker].)

Dominion:: The service on an OpenNMS core that controls the operation of Minions.
(See xref:reference:configuration/minion-confd/minion-confd.adoc#dominion[Configuring Minion via Confd].)

> Elasticsearch:: Elasticsearch is a NoSQL database (See https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/nosql-database/[What is NoSQL?]) with an integrated search engine based on the Lucene library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch:: Elasticsearch is a NoSQL database with an integrated search engine based on the Lucene library.
(See https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/nosql-database/[What is NoSQL?])
```

OpenNMS persists/forwards certain data to Elasticsearch to store flow records and warehouse events and alarm history for long-term storage of this data.
(See xref:operation:elasticsearch/introduction.adoc#elasticsearch[Elasticsearch Integration].)

Events:: Structured historical records of activities in {page-component-title} and the nodes, interfaces, and services it manages.
(See xref:operation:events/anatomy-events.adoc[Anatomy of an Event].)

Flows:: Summaries of network traffic sent by network devices.
(See xref:operation:flows/introduction.adoc[Flows].)

Foreign Source:: A data source hosted outside of your local network.
To customize monitoring of nodes in a foreign source, you can set a foreign source definition with your desired detectors and policies.
(See xref:operation:provisioning/getting-started.adoc#foreign-source-definition[Foreign Source Definition].)

Geolocation:: The actual physical location of a node monitored by {page-component-title}.

> Nodes can be manually assigned a location, or the location can be automatically determined using the GeoIP Provisioning Adapter (See xref:reference:provisioning/adapters/geoip.adoc[GeoIP]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nodes can be manually assigned a location, or the location can be automatically determined using the ref:reference:provisioning/adapters/geoip.adoc[GeoIP Provisioning Adapter].
```
Just tightening this up a bit.

Reviewer 2: Grr. Cut and paste error. It should be xref.

Author: ```suggestion
Nodes can be manually assigned a location, or the location can be automatically determined using the xref:reference:provisioning/adapters/geoip.adoc[GeoIP Provisioning Adapter].
```

Discovery:: A process that uses ICMP to find network devices and services in your network and then automatically adds them to monitoring.
(See xref:operation:provisioning/introduction.adoc#discovery-auto[Provisioning].)

Docker:: Docker is an open-source virtualization service consisting of three components: Docker Compose (a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications), Docker Swarm (a tool providing native clustering functionality for Docker containers), and Docker Volume (a tool that allows for the independent persistence of data).
(See https://docs.docker.com/[Docker].)

Dominion:: The service on an OpenNMS core that controls the operation of Minions.
(See xref:reference:configuration/minion-confd/minion-confd.adoc#dominion[Configuring Minion via Confd].)

Elasticsearch:: Elasticsearch is a NoSQL database with an integrated search engine based on the Lucene library.
(See https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/nosql-database/[What is NoSQL?])

> OpenNMS persists/forwards certain data to Elasticsearch to store flow records and warehouse events and alarm history for long-term storage of this data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{page-component-title} persists/forwards certain data to Elasticsearch to store flow records and warehouse events and alarm history for long-term storage of this data.
```

Events:: Structured historical records of activities in {page-component-title} and the nodes, interfaces, and services it manages.
(See xref:operation:events/anatomy-events.adoc[Anatomy of an Event].)

Flows:: Summaries of network traffic sent by network devices.
(See xref:operation:flows/introduction.adoc[Flows].)

Foreign Source:: A data source hosted outside of your local network.
To customize monitoring of nodes in a foreign source, you can set a foreign source definition with your desired detectors and policies.
(See xref:operation:provisioning/getting-started.adoc#foreign-source-definition[Foreign Source Definition].)

Geolocation:: The actual physical location of a node monitored by {page-component-title}.
Nodes can be manually assigned a location, or the location can be automatically determined using the xref:reference:provisioning/adapters/geoip.adoc[GeoIP Provisioning Adapter].

Grafana:: Grafana is an open-source analysis and visualization web application.
It connects to data sources and generates dashboards with charts, graphs, and alerts.
(See https://grafana.com/[Grafana].)

> OpenNMS HELM is a Grafana plugin that allows users to customize fault management and performance management data from {page-component-title}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenNMS HELM is a Grafana plugin that allows users to create customized dashboards with data from {page-component-title}.
```

(See https://docs.opennms.com/helm/latest[HELM Documentation].)

> Helm:: Helm is an an OpenNMS application for creating flexible dashboards to display and customize fault management and performance management data from Horizon and Meridian.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Helm:: Helm is an OpenNMS application for creating flexible dashboards to display and customize fault, flow, and performance data from {page-component-title}.
```

Helm works with the Grafana analytics program to customize the data you can view.
Not to be confused with the https://helm.sh/[Kubernetes Helm] package manager.
(See https://docs.opennms.com/helm/latest[HELM Documentation].)

Horizon:: Open-source solution from OpenNMS that helps users visualize and monitor everything on their local and remote networks.
Free, community-driven project includes the latest technology and features delivered through a rapid release cycle.

IFTTT:: If This Then That (https://ifttt.com/[IFTTT]) is an automation and workflow service that integrates apps, devices, and services.
{page-component-title} can integrate with IFTTT to trigger actions on other services based on customized alarms.
(See xref:operation:alarms/ifttt-integration.adoc[IFTTT Integration].)

Instance:: A single, unique copy of a running program.
If a program has multiple instances, that indicates that the program has been loaded into memory more than once.

> 

Reviewer: "instance" is also used in datacollection for processing some types of data for persisting to disk.

Author: I didn't see anything referring to "instance" being used this way in our existing documentation. Would we need to add a clarifying sentence to the entry, or maybe earmark it for future?

Reviewer: This is kind of a dictionary definition of the term.  We don't use it to mean anything unique.

Author: Okay, so maybe something like this then?

```suggestion
Instance:: A single, unique occurrence of an element, document, or running program.
If a program has multiple instances, that indicates that the program has been loaded into memory more than once.

```

Reviewer 2: I think we should keep it. There were a lot of new people at the time we came up with the list who didn't understand what it meant, particularly in the context of the Cloud Appliance where we specifically create an instance as part of set up. While this glossary isn't associated with the Cloud docs directly, it is a central location where we could link fro the Cloud docs if we wanted to.

We could add Mark's comment "also used in datacollection for processing ..." to the one-sentence definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instance:: (1) A single, unique occurrence of an element, document, or running program.
(2) Used in data collection for storing tabular data as separate data points.

```

Kibana:: Kibana is a component of the Elastic Stack (comprised of Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana).
It provides visualization capabilities for data indexed in an Elasticsearch cluster.

KSC Reports:: Key SNMP customized (KSC) reports provide a way to generate prefabricated graphical views of collected data.
They let you display data from different devices and sources (SNMP, ICMP, HTTP) on one page.
(See xref:operation:admin/webui/opsboard/dashlet/ksc.adoc#ksc[KSC Reports].)

Kubernetes:: Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration system for automating software deployments, scaling, and management.
Originally designed by Google, it is now maintained by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation.
(See https://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes].)

> Location:: The geographical location of a node that is being managed using OpenNMS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Location:: The monitoring location of a node.
```
OpenNMS is not managing the node, just monitoring it.

> Nodes can be manually assigned a location (See xref:reference:provisioning/handlers/dns.adoc[Location]), or the location can be determined using the GeoIP Provisioning Adapter (See xref:reference:provisioning/adapters/geoip.adoc[GeoIP]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is distinct from geolocation, which is the actual physical location of the node. 
```
Feel free to reword my suggestion. The deleted text is great and you could use it in the geolocation definition.

> Nodes can be manually assigned a location (See xref:operation:reference/provisioning/handlers/dns.adoc[Location]), or the location can be determined using the GeoIP Provisioning Adapter (See xref:operation:reference/provisioning/adapters/geoip.adoc[GeoIP]).

Reviewer: In the product, the term "location" is generally more associated with "monitoring locations" and Minions, which have a specific impact when set on requisitioned nodes. In the context of geolocation, the DNS handler isn't relevant here.

Author: Ah, okay. In that case, do you have a suggestion on how this should be reworded? And should we have two entries - one for the monitoring locations and one for geolocation?

(See xref:operation:admin/webui/opsboard/dashlet/ksc.adoc#ksc[KSC Reports].)

Kubernetes:: Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration system for automating software deployments, scaling, and management.
Originally designed by Google, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation now maintains it.
(See https://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes].)

Location:: The monitoring location of a node.

> Nodes can be manually assigned a location (See xref:reference:provisioning/handlers/dns.adoc[Location]), or the location can be determined using the GeoIP Provisioning Adapter (See xref:reference:provisioning/adapters/geoip.adoc[GeoIP]).

Reviewer 2: I would still delete this sentence. As Mark mentioned, the DNS handler isn't relevant here. 

Replace it with a sentence that explicitly states there is a difference between location and geolocation.
"This differs from geolocation which is the actual physical location of the node."

Add the term "geolocation" to the glossary, and define it as the physical location of the node. I don't think we need to provide any more detail in the glossary.

Author: This was resolved in the most recent commit. :)

Reviewer 2: Oh. Sorry. That's strange. It didn't show up when I did the review. I will look again.

Kibana:: Kibana is a component of the Elastic Stack (comprised of Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana).
It provides visualization capabilities for data indexed in an Elasticsearch cluster.

KSC Reports:: Key SNMP customized (KSC) reports provide a way to generate prefabricated graphical views of collected data.
They let you display data from different devices and sources (SNMP, ICMP, HTTP) on one page.
(See xref:operation:admin/webui/opsboard/dashlet/ksc.adoc#ksc[KSC Reports].)

Kubernetes:: Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration system for automating software deployments, scaling, and management.
Originally designed by Google, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation now maintains it.
(See https://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes].)

> Location:: The monitoring location of a node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Location:: Also referred to as "monitoring location" or "Minion location".
Nodes assigned to a monitoring location will be monitored by Minions assigned to the same location.
```

Nephron:: OpenNMS component that enables horizontal scaling of flow processing.
Not required for flow processing, but can improve performance for deployments with a very high volume of flow documents.

> Network Operating Center:: A Network Operating Center (NOC) is comprised of one or more locations where a network is monitored and controlled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Network Operating Center:: A Network Operating Center (NOC) is one or more locations where a network is monitored and controlled.
```

(See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_operations_center[Network Operations Center].)

Newts:: Newts (New-Fangled Time Series Datastore) is an OpenNMS time series data store based on Apache Cassandra.
Use it as an alternative persistence strategy instead of JRobin or RRDtool.
(See xref:deployment:time-series-storage/newts/introduction.adoc#ga-opennms-operation-newts[Newts].)

Notifications:: Messages delivered to a set of recipients.

> OpenNMS uses notifications to inform users about events in their monitored networks without forcing them to log in and look at the UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{page-component-title} notifications inform users about events in their monitored networks without forcing them to log in and look at the UI.
```
